.TA p
.TH create-partition 1m
.ds )H Aptec ( www.aptec.net.au )
.ds ]W FGVM for HP-UX 11.0
.SH NAME
create-partition \- create a chrootable environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.CR create-partition
.IR partition
.RC ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.CR create-partition
is the command that needs to be run to create an chootable
environment. 
.PP
It does several things.  Firstly,  it checks to see if a volume
group of the form /dev/vgPARTITIONpartition exists.  If it doesn't,
you will be interactively prompted for disk device names so that
it can create the volume group.
.PP
Next,  it duplicates all the logical volumes out of the root filesystem
(including all data) into appropriately sized VxFS filesystems that
it creates in the new volume group.
.PP
/etc/opt/fgvm/partition.list is updated to include the PARTITION
name.
.PP
Finally,  the partition is "run",  and its filesystems extensively
modified \-\- see partition-filesystem-changes.sh(1m).  Then 
plpsetup(1m) is run on the partition.
.PP
You will probably want to edit the partition's /etc/partition/netconf file.
(Updating DNS and /etc/hosts is a good idea as well.  I like to have
a name in DNS for each partition -- it makes it much easier to
for clients to connect to the right partition.  YMMV)
Possibly you will also want to run some package install scripts
(from /opt/fgvm/packages) and then restart the partition.  In order 
to enable internet services (such as telnet(1)) you will need to
modify inetd.conf(4) to use destswitch(1m).
.SH EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.SH WARNINGS
.SH DEPENDENCIES
If the root volume group is in a bad state,  it just gets copied 
blindly, possibly 
.SH BUGS
Doesn't pay attention to the filesystem type in the root logical 
volumes.  Sometimes has a problem trying to work out the next
unused minor number for creating a volume group.  If /home (say)
is not in the root filesystem,  it will have to be copied manually
into place.
.PP
Probably many, many others.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 35
.CR /etc/partition/netconf
in each partition
.TP
.CR /etc/services
.TP
.CR /etc/inetd.conf
.TP
.CR /etc/opt/fgvm/environ.sh
locations of partition roots
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
destswitch(1m),
delete-partition(1m),
chroot(1),
inetd(1m),
inetd.conf(4),
create-volume-group.pl(1m),
getpartition(1m),
partition.isl(1m),
partition.fsu(1m),
plpsetup(1m),
partition-filesystem-changes.sh(1m),
pshow(1m),
pnetconf(1m),
pcp(1m)
pdevupdate(1m),
propogate(1m),
pu(1m),
swpropogate(1m),
pps(1m).
.PP
.SH STANDARDS COMPLIANCE
None whatsoever
