.\" $Header: ps.1,v 80.1 96/10/16 15:14:49 ssa Exp $
.TA p
.TH delete-partition 1m
.ds )H Aptec ( www.aptec.net.au )
.ds ]W FGVM for HP-UX 11.0
.SH NAME
delete-partition \- delete a chrootable environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.CR delete-partition
.IR partition
.RC ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.CR delete-partition
destroys a chrootable environment.
.PP
It does several things.  Firstly,  it shuts down the partition
with partition.fsu(1m).  This will unmount all filesystems within
that partition,  allowing the logical volumes  of the form
/dev/vgPARTITIONpartition/xxx to be removed.  Then the volume
group is removed, reducing out physical volumes if necessary.
Finally, /etc/opt/fgvm/partition.list is modified to remove any reference to
this partition.
.PP
If this was the last partition that you had,  you may want to consider
removing destswitch(1m) from /etc/inetd.conf.
.PP
.SH EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.SH WARNINGS
.SH DEPENDENCIES
/usr/contrib/bin/perl must exist and be a Perl4-compatible interpreter.
.SH BUGS
Doesn't check to see that the thing you are deleting actually exists, so
you could do all sorts of mischief if you wanted to.  On the other hand,
if it does get stuck halfway for some reason,  you can always run it again.
.PP
.SH FEATURES
It might not count as a bug,  but if the partition used logical 
volumes in a volume group not called /dev/vgPARTITIONpartition,  those
logical volumes will not be removed.  (Which is good if you were wanting
to use them in another partition).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 35
.CR /etc/inetd.conf
.TP
.CR /etc/opt/fgvm/environ.pl
locations of partition roots
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
create-partition(1m),
destswitch(1m),
chroot(1),
inetd(1m),
create-volume-group.pl(1m),
getpartition(1m),
partition.isl(1m),
partition.fsu(1m),
plpsetup(1m),
partition-filesystem-changes.sh(1m),
pshow(1m),
pnetconf(1m),
pcp(1m)
pdevupdate(1m),
propogate(1m),
pu(1m),
swpropogate(1m),
pps(1m).
.PP
.SH STANDARDS COMPLIANCE
None whatsoever
