.TA p
.TH destswitch 1m
.ds )H Aptec ( www.aptec.net.au )
.ds ]W FGVM for HP-UX 11.0
.SH NAME
destswitch \- show simple status of some partitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.CR /opt/fgvm/lbin/destswitch 
.IR program
.RC args
.RC ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.CR destswitch
is not designed to be run by hand.  It should
be run only from inetd(1m).
.PP
In order to fake the capabilities of OpenBSD's inetd in HP-UX
(in which it is possible to have different interfaces / same
port number combinations),  destswitch examines the socket
which it receives as its stdin.  In particular, it examines
the target IP address.  It searches through each partition's
/etc/partition/netconf file to find a match for this IP address.
If a match is found,  destswitch does a chroot(2) into that
partition,  and runs the program given on the command line
(with whatever arguments were specified).
.PP
If no match was found,  the command gets run in the toplevel.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
Common requirements are for telnet, ftp, rlogin, remsh and rcp
to be accessible to subenvironments.
Here are the appropriate lines for inetd.conf(4). Note that 
destswitch does nothing with argv[0] (in the seventh column)
,  and so it can safely
be anything.
.IP
.C "ftp stream tcp nowait root /opt/fgvm/lbin/destswitch - /usr/lbin/ftpd -l"
.IP
.C "telnet stream tcp nowait root /opt/fgvm/lbin/destswitch destswitch /usr/lbin/telnetd   -b /etc/issue.netpartition"
.IP
.C "login stream tcp nowait root /opt/fgvm/lbin/destswitch hello /usr/lbin/rlogind"
.IP
.C "shell stream tcp nowait root /opt/fgvm/lbin/destswitch ignored /usr/lbin/remshd"
.IP
.C "exec stream tcp nowait root /opt/fgvm/lbin/destswitch _ /usr/lbin/rexecd"
.PP
Secure shell is not usually started from inetd.  It can listen on specific
interfaces anyway,  and thus does not help from destswitch.
.PP
.SH EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.SH WARNINGS
.SH DEPENDENCIES
/usr/contrib/bin/perl must be an executable and Perl4-compatible
interpreter.
.SH BUGS
Probably many.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 35
.CR /etc/partition/netconf
in each partition
.TP
.CR /etc/opt/fgvm/environ.pl
locations of partition roots
.TP
.CR /etc/opt/fgvm/partition.list
list of all known partitions
.TP
.CR /etc/inetd.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
inetd(1m),
inetd.conf(4),
ftpd(1m),
telnetd(1m),
rlogind(1m),
sshd(8),
create-partition(1m),
pshow(1m),
pnetconf(1m).
.SH STANDARDS COMPLIANCE
None whatsoever
