.TA r
.TH fgvm 1m
.ds )H Aptec ( www.aptec.net.au )
.ds ]W FGVM for HP-UX 11.00
.SH NAME
fgvm \- description of \s-1FGVM\s0 commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
FGVM is a system for dividing up a big machine into a number of
concurrent, segregated machines.  This is similar to IBM's  VM,
except:

.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
There is only one operating system running.

.TP
\(bu There is only one process space,  so processes have unique
identifier numbers across the whole machine,  rather than within
each subpartition.

.TP
\(bu Interprocess communication can be done between processes 
operating in different partitions.
.RE

.PP

It works by exploiting the chroot(2) system call,  which lets
processes have a "root" directory that is not the real one. If
a process is chroot'ed into /partition/foobar,  then when it
looks for the file /etc/passwd,  it will actually get
/partition/foobar/etc/passwd.  This chroot state gets propogated
to child processes,  thus providing a near-complete illusion of
a full machine.

.PP

It does not require special hardware,  nor is it particularly
confined to any special version of Unix.  

.PP

.SH TERMINOLOGY
.CR partition
means a chroot(2)-able environment.  By default,  these would
be found in subdirectories of /partition.  A partition 
called "foobar" would be /partition/foobar.  There would be
a /partition/foobar/etc/passwd, /partition/foobar/etc/group,
/partition/foobar/usr/bin/ls  and so on.
.PP
.CR toplevel
means everything that is not a partition.  Processes which have
been started without being chroot'ed know the real
root directory.  These are occasionally described as being 
"toplevel" processes.  Files are often copied from "the toplevel".
.PP
.CR starting
a partition
means mounting its filesystems and starting up its processes using
init.partition.  Hence we talk about a partition being "up" or 
"down"
.PP
.CR pseudo-single
usermode means that just the "root" filesystem is mounted and no others. It
is an intermediate  state between being up or down.
.PP

.SH GETTING STARTED
Read the man page for create-partition(1m) and destswitch(1m).
Find some spare diskspace and run create-partition.  Essentially,
all this does is copy the root volume group into place,  and 
then replace a couple of files within the partition.  If you're
interested to find out,  look at the 
.CR /opt/fgvm/skel
directory,  at the script that does the changes
.CR /opt/fgvm/bin/partition-filesystem-changes.sh 
and if you have too much time on your hands,  the source
in 
.CR /opt/fgvm/src  .
kill(1) and ps(1) have been modified to only operate within
a partition.  Have a look at the man pages for them (they are
best accessible from within an environment).

.PP
When create-partition(1m) has
finished (usually 20-40 minutes),  you will want to set up the
partition's networking.  
Each partition needs to have assigned an IP 
address, which is an aliases of a LAN card's physical  address.
(This is a feature of some operating systems to allow multiple
IP address per LAN card).   This is done by editting the
partition's /etc/partition/netconf file.  This gets read by 
the partition's /sbin/netstart.partition  when a partition gets
started.

.PP
You can start and stop partitions with partition.isl(1m) 
and partition.fsu(1m) respectively. 
.PP


.SH PACKAGES
Since both the ps(1) and the kill(1) command found inside a partition
have been tweaked to work only on the  partition's processes,  it is
usually quite safe to use unchanged SVR4 startup/shutdown scripts within
a partition.  In fact,  it is the recommended way of doing things.  
.PP
We don't have the sophisticated concept of run levels within partitions
(although we could).  Instead,  there is a file /etc/partition/packages
which defines a variable
.CR PARTITION_SAFE_PACKAGES
which is a list of files within the partition's /sbin/init.d  directory
to be run if they exist.
By default this list includes 
.IR cron
.IR lp
.IR syslogd
.IR ssh
.IR oracle
.PP
It is not a problem having entries in /etc/partition/packages that 
correspond to no actual files.  They are silently ignored.
.PP

.SH COMMAND SUMMARY
.PD 0
.TP 25
.CR create-partition
create a chrootable environment
.TP
.CR delete-partition 
delete a chrootable environment
.TP
.CR destswitch 
show simple status of some partitions
.TP
.CR getpartition
state partition of processes
.TP
.CR partition.fsu
partition final system unloader
.TP
.CR partition.isl
partition final system unloader
.TP
.CR partitionname 
print name of current partition
.TP
.CR pcp
simple wrapper to cp
.TP
.CR pdevupdate
update device files in a partition
.TP
.CR plpsetup
update printer configuration in a partition
.TP
.CR pls 
list all partitions
.TP
.CR pnetconf
print netconf file of partitions
.TP
.CR pps
report process status within some partition
.TP
.CR propogate
update partitions from the toplevel
.TP
.CR pshow
show simple status of some partitions
.TP
.CR pu
switch partitions
.TP
.CR swpropogate
update partitions' software from the toplevel
.PD
.SH CONTACT DETAILS
If you have any questions about this product,  contact
Aptec on 61 +2 8977 0000 .  It was mostly written by
Greg Baker (greg.baker@aptec.net.au).

