.TA p
.TH partition.isl 1m
.ds )H Aptec ( www.aptec.net.au )
.ds ]W FGVM for HP-UX 11.0
.SH NAME
partition.isl \- partition final system unloader
.SH SYNOPSIS
.CR partition.isl
.IR \[ partition \]
.RC ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.CR partition.isl
starts a partition. If given no arguments,  it attempt to start all
partitions.
.PP
It mounts the partition's root filesystem (performing
fsck(1m) if necessary), and
then its non-root filesystems (as listed in the partition's /etc/fstab
file).  Device files are copied in from the top level by pdevupdate(1m)
and the printer configuration "corrected" with plpsetup(1m).   Finally,
the partition's init.partition program is run
.PP
Because of bugs in HP's implementation of mount(1m), mountall(1m), umount(1m)
and umountall(1m),  even "non-root" filesystems need to mounted outside
of the chroot'ed environment.  Therefore, there is a program mountall.pl(1m)
to perform this task.  This may change in the future, when it becomes 
possible to use mountall(1m) within the chroot'ed environment.
.PP
.SH EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.SH WARNINGS
.SH DEPENDENCIES
mountall.pl requires /usr/contrib/bin/perl.
.SH FEATURES
It is not a problem to run partition.isl twice on the same partition.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 35
.CR /sbin/init.partition
in each partition
.TP
.CR /etc/fstab
in each partition
.TP
.CR /etc/opt/fgvm/environ.sh
locations of partition roots
.TP
.CR /etc/opt/fgvm/environ.pl
ditto
.TP
.CR /opt/fgvm/isl/mountall.pl
the HP bug workaround
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
partition.fsu(1m),
pls(1m),
pshow(1m),
pps(1m).
.PP
.SH STANDARDS COMPLIANCE
None whatsoever
