.TA p
.TH plpsetup 1m
.ds )H Aptec ( www.aptec.net.au )
.ds ]W FGVM for HP-UX 11.0
.SH NAME
plpsetup \- update printer configuration in a partition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.CR plpsetup
.IR \[ partition \]
.RC ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Because it is necessary to serialise access to printers,  it
is not safe to have multiple lpsched(1m) processes acting on
the one system all writing to the same devices at the same time,
FGVM employs a workaround.  The toplevel is left unchanged,  and
all the subpartitions are modified so that their printer definitions
are all "remote" (SVR4) printers,  printing "remotely" to the
toplevel.
.PP
.CR plpsetup
does this modification.  Firstly it removes any printer in the
given subpartition with the same name as one in the toplevel,  and
the creates a remote equivalent.   
.PP
If given arguments,  these are taken to be the names of partitions
to work on.  If given no arguments,  it will work through all
partitions in turn.  It automatically runs lpshut(1m) and lpsched(1m)
in each partition as it works.
.PP
It is run automatically by partition.isl(1m).  
.SH FEATURES
.CR plpsetup
does not remove printers in a subpartition that directly access
device files if the name does not match a toplevel printer
name.  This is because there (should be) no danger of race
conditions between multiple lpsched processes.
.SH BUGS
.CR plpsetup
will always add a toplevel printer,  even if it did not previously
exist in the subenvironment.
.PP
If spool files existed in the toplevel when create-partition(1m)
was run,  these will probably continue to exist in the partition.
Moreover,  these may get printed twice, or worse still,  may not
be printable,  thus causing the printer removal done by
.CR plpsetup
to fail.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 35
.CR /etc/opt/fgvm/environ.sh
locations of partition roots
.TP
.CR /etc/opt/fgvm/partition.list
list of all known partitions
.SH SEE ALSO
lpsched(1m),
lpshut(1m),
lpadmin(1m),
create-partition(1m),
pls(1m),
partition.isl(1m).
.SH STANDARDS COMPLIANCE
None whatsoever
