.TA p
.TH pps 1m
.ds )H Aptec ( www.aptec.net.au )
.ds ]W FGVM for HP-UX 11.0
.SH NAME
pps \- report process status within some partition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.CR pps
.RC partition 
.RC ...
.RC [ \-adeflP ]
.RC [ \-g
.IR grplist ]
.RC [ \-p
.IR proclist ]
.RC [ \-R
.IR prmgrplist ]
.RC [ \-t
.IR termlist ]
.RC [ \-u
.IR uidlist ]
.SS XPG4 Synopsis
.CR ps
.RC partition 
.RC ...
.RC [ \-aAcdefHjlP ]
.RC [ \-C
.IR cmdlist ]
.RC [ \-g
.IR grplist ]
.RC [ \-G
.IR gidlist ]
.RC [ \-n
.IR namelist ]
.RC [ \-o
.IR format ]
.RC [ \-p
.IR proclist ]
.RC [ \-R
.IR prmgrplist ]
.RC [ \-s
.IR sidlist ]
.RC [ \-t
.IR termlist ]
.RC [ \-u
.IR uidlist ]
.RC [ \-U
.IR uidlist ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.CR ps
prints information about selected processes, in the specified partition(s).
Use options to specify
which processes to select and what information to print about them.
.SS Process Selection Options
.PP
Use the following options to choose which processes should be selected.
.PP
NOTE: If an option is used in both the default (standard HP-UX) and
XPG4 environments, the description provided here documents the default
behavior.  Refer to the
.CR UNIX95
variable under EXTERNAL INFLUENCES for
additional information on XPG4 behavior.
.RS
.TP 15
(none)
Select those processes associated with the current terminal.
.TP
.CR \-A
(XPG4 Only.)  Select all processes.  (Synonym for
.CR \-e .)
.TP
.CR \-a
Select all processes except process group leaders and processes not
associated with a terminal.
.TP
.CI \-C \0cmdlist
(XPG4 Only.)  Select processes executing a command with a basename given in
.IR cmdlist .
.TP
.CR \-d
Select all processes except process group leaders.
.TP
.CR \-e
Select all processes.
.TP
.CI \-g \0grplist
Select processes whose process group leaders are given in
.IR grplist .
.TP
.CI \-G \0gidlist
(XPG4 Only.)  Select processes whose real group ID numbers or group
names are given in
.IR gidlist .
.TP
.CI \-n \0namelist
(XPG4 Only.)  This option is ignored; its presence is allowed for
standards compliance.
.TP
.CI \-p \0proclist
Select processes whose process ID numbers are given in
.IR proclist .
.TP
.CI \-R \0prmgrplist
Select processes belonging to PRM process resource groups whose names
or ID numbers are given in
.IR prmgrplist .
See DEPENDENCIES.
.TP
.CI \-s \0sidlist
(XPG4 Only.)  Select processes whose session leaders are given in
.IR sidlist .
(Synonym for 
.CR \-g ).
.TP
.CI \-t \0termlist
Select processes associated with the terminals given in
.IR termlist .
Terminal identifiers can be specified in one of two forms:
the device's file name (such as
.CR tty04 )
or if the device's file name starts with
.CR tty ,
just the rest of it (such as
.CR 04 ).
If the device's file is in a directory other than
.CR /dev
or
.CR /dev/pty ,
the terminal identifier must include the name
of the directory under
.CR /dev
that contains the device file (such as
.CR pts/5 ).
.TP
.CI \-u \0uidlist
Select processes whose effective user ID numbers or login names are given in
.IR uidlist .
.TP
.CI \-U \0uidlist
(XPG4 Only.)  Select processes whose real user ID numbers or login names
are given in
.IR uidlist .
.RE
.PP
If any of the
.CR \-a ,
.CR \-A ,
.CR \-d ,
or
.CR \-e
options is specified, the
.CR \-C ,
.CR \-g ,
.CR \-G ,
.CR \-p ,
.CR \-R ,
.CR \-t ,
.CR \-u ,
and
.CR \-U
options are ignored.
.PP
If more than one of
.CR \-a ,
.CR \-A ,
.CR \-d ,
and
.CR \-e
are specified, the least restrictive option takes effect.
.PP
If more than one of the
.CR \-C ,
.CR \-g ,
.CR \-G ,
.CR \-p ,
.CR \-R ,
.CR \-t ,
.CR \-u ,
and
.CR \-U
options
are specified,
processes will be selected if they match any of the options specified.
.PP
The lists used as arguments to the
.CR \-C ,
.CR \-g ,
.CR \-G ,
.CR \-p ,
.CR \-R ,
.CR \-t ,
.CR \-u ,
and
.CR \-U
options can be specified in one of two forms:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
A list of identifiers separated from one another by a comma.
.TP
\(bu
A list of identifiers enclosed in quotation marks (\c
.C """\c"
) and separated from one another by a comma and/or one or more spaces.
.RE
.SS Output Format Options
Use the following options to control which columns of data
are included in the output listing.
The options are cumulative.
.RS
.TP 15
(none)
.\"   PID TTY       TIME COMMAND
The default columns are:
.CR pid ,
.CR tty ,
.CR time ,
and
.CR comm ,
in that order.
.TP
.CR \-f
.\"     UID   PID  PPID  C    STIME TTY       TIME COMMAND
Show columns
.CR user ,
.CR pid ,
.CR ppid ,
.CR cpu ,
.CR stime ,
.CR tty ,
.CR time ,
and
.CR args ,
in that order.
.TP
.CR \-l
.\"  F S   UID   PID  PPID  C PRI NI     ADDR   SZ    WCHAN TTY       TIME COMD
Show columns
.CR flags ,
.CR state ,
.CR uid ,
.CR pid ,
.CR ppid ,
.CR cpu ,
.CR intpri ,
.CR nice ,
.CR addr ,
.CR sz ,
.CR wchan ,
.CR tty ,
.CR time ,
and
.CR comm ,
in that order.
.TP
.CR \-fl
Show columns
.CR flags ,
.CR state ,
.CR user ,
.CR pid ,
.CR ppid ,
.CR cpu ,
.CR intpri ,
.CR nice ,
.CR addr ,
.CR sz ,
.CR wchan ,
.CR stime ,
.CR tty ,
.CR time ,
and
.CR args ,
in that order.
.TP
.CR \-c
(XPG4 Only.)  Remove columns
.CR cpu
and
.CR nice ;
replace column
.CR intpri
with columns
.CR cls
and
.CR pri .
.TP
.CR \-j
(XPG4 Only.)  Add columns
.CR pgid
and
.CR sid
after column
.CR ppid
(or
.CR pid ,
if
.CR ppid
is not being displayed).
.TP
.CR \-P
Add column
.CR prmid
(for
.CR \-l )
or
.CR prmgrp
(for
.CR \-f
or
.CR \-fl )
immediately before column
.CR pid .
See DEPENDENCIES.
.TP
.CI \-o \0format
(XPG4 Only.)
.I format
is a comma- or space-separated list of the columns to display,
in the order they should be displayed.  (Valid column names are listed
below.)  A column name can optionally be followed by an equals sign
.RC ( = )
and a string to use as the heading for that column.  (Any commas or spaces
after the equals sign will be taken as a part of the column heading; if more
columns are desired, they must be specified with additional
.CR \-o
options.)  The width of the column will be the greater of the width of the
data to be displayed and the width of the column heading.  If an empty
column heading is specified for every heading, no heading line will be
printed.  This option overrides options
.CR \-c ,
.CR \-f ,
.CR \-j ,
.CR \-l ,
and
.CR \-P ;
if they are specified, they are ignored.
.TP
.CR \-H
(XPG4 Only.)  Shows the process hierarchy.  Each process is displayed
under its parent, and the contents of the
.CR args
or
.CR comm
column for that process is indented from that of its parent.  Note that this
option is expensive in both memory and speed.
.RE
.PP
The column names and their meanings are given below.  Except where noted,
the default heading for each column is the uppercase form of the
column name.
.RS
.TP 15
.CR addr
The memory address of the process, if resident;
otherwise, the disk address.
.TP
.CR args
The command line given when the process was created.
This column should be the last one specified, if it is desired.
Only a subset of the command line is saved by the kernel;
as much of the command line will be displayed as is available.
The output in this column may contain spaces.
The default heading for this column is
.CR COMMAND
if
.CR \-o
is specified and
.CR CMD
otherwise.
.TP
.CR cls
Process scheduling class, see
.IR rtsched (1).
.TP
.CR comm
The command name.  The output in this column may contain spaces.
The default heading for this column is
.CR COMMAND
if
.CR \-o
is specified and
.CR CMD
otherwise.
.TP
.CR cpu
Processor utilization for scheduling.  The default heading
for this column is
.CR C .
.TP
.CR etime
Elapsed time of the process.  The default heading for this column is
.CR ELAPSED .
.TP
.CR flags
Flags (octal and additive) associated with the process:
.RS 20
.TP
.PD 0
.CR \00
Swapped
.TP
.CR \01
In core
.TP
.CR \02
System process
.TP
.CR \04
Locked in core (e.g., for physical I/O)
.TP
.CR 10
Being traced by another process
.TP
.CR 20
Another tracing flag
.PD
.RE
.IP
The default heading for this column is
.CR F .
.TP
.CR intpri
The priority of the process as it is stored internally by the kernel.
This column is provided for backward compatibility and its use is not
encouraged.
.TP
.CR gid
The group ID number of the effective process owner.
.TP
.CR group
The group name of the effective process owner.
.TP
.CR nice
Nice value; used in priority computation (see
.IR nice (1)).
The default heading for this column is
.CR NI .
.TP
.CR pcpu
The percentage of CPU time used by this process during the last scheduling
interval.  The default heading for this column is
.CR %CPU .
.TP
.CR pgid
The process group ID number of the process group to which this process belongs.
.TP
.CR pid
The process ID number of the process.
.TP
.CR ppid
The process ID number of the parent process.
.TP
.CR pri
The priority of the process.  The meaning of the value depends on
the process scheduling class; see
.CR cls ,
above, and
.IR rtsched (1).
.TP
.CR prmid
The PRM process resource group ID number.
.TP
.CR prmgrp
The PRM process resource group name.
.TP
.CR rgid
The group ID number of the real process owner.
.TP
.CR rgroup
The group name of the real process owner.
.TP
.CR ruid
The user ID number of the real process owner.
.TP
.CR ruser
The login name of the real process owner.
.TP
.CR sid
The session ID number of the session to which this process belongs.
.TP
.CR state
The state of the process:
.RS 20
.TP
.PD 0
.CR 0
Nonexistent
.TP
.CR S
Sleeping
.TP
.CR W
Waiting
.TP
.CR R
Running
.TP
.CR I
Intermediate
.TP
.CR Z
Terminated
.TP
.CR T
Stopped
.TP
.CR X
Growing
.PD
.RE
.IP
The default heading for this column is
.CR S .
.TP
.CR stime
Starting time of the process.
If the elapsed time is greater than 24 hours,
the starting date is displayed instead.
.TP
.CR sz
The size in physical pages of the core image of the process,
including text, data, and stack space.
Physical page size is defined by
.CR _SC_PAGE_SIZE
in the header file
.CR <unistd.h>
(see
.IR sysconf (2)
and
.IR unistd (5)).
.TP
.CR time
The cumulative execution time for the process.
.TP
.CR tty
The controlling terminal for the process.  The default heading for
this column is
.CR TT
if
.CR -o
is specified and
.CR TTY
otherwise.
.TP
.CR uid
The user ID number of the effective process owner.
.TP
.CR user
The login name of the effective process owner.
.TP
.CR vsz
The size in kilobytes (1024 byte units) of the core image of the
process.  See column
.CR sz ,
above.
.TP
.CR wchan
The event for which the process is waiting or sleeping;
if there is none, a hyphen (-) is displayed.
.RE
.SS Notes
.CR ps
prints the command name and arguments
given at the time of the process was created.
If the process changes its arguments while running (by writing
to its
.I argv
array), these changes are not displayed by
.CR ps .
.PP
A process that has exited and has a parent,
but has not yet been waited for by the parent, is marked
.CR <defunct>
(see
.GT "zombie process"
in
.IR exit (2)).
.PP
The time printed in the
.CR stime
column, and used in computing the value for the
.CR etime
column, is the time when the process was forked,
.EM not
the time when it was modified by
.CR exec() .
.PP
To make the
.CR ps
output safer to display and easier to read, all control characters in the
.CR comm
and
.CR args
columns are displayed as "visible" equivalents
in the customary control character format,
.CI ^ x\f1.
.SH EXTERNAL INFLUENCES
.SS Environment Variables
.CR UNIX95
specifies to use the XPG4 behavior for this command.  The changes for
XPG4 include support for the entire option set specified above and
include the following behavioral changes:
.RS
.TP 2
\(bu
The
.CR TIME
column format changes from
.IC mmmm : ss
to
.RI [\| dd \-\]\|\c
.IC hh : mm : ss\f1.
.TP
\(bu
When the
.CR comm ,
.CR args ,
.CR user ,
and
.CR prmgrp
fields are included by
default or the
.CR -f
or
.CR -l
flags are used, the column headings of those fields
change to
.CR CMD ,
.CR CMD ,
.CR USER ,
and
.CR PRMGRP ,
respectively.
.TP
\(bu 
.CR -a ,
.CR -d ,
and
.CR -g
will select processes based on session rather than on
process group.
.TP
\(bu
The uid or user column displayed by
.CR -f
or
.CR -l
will display effective
user rather than real user.
.TP
\(bu
The
.CR -u
option will select users based on effective UID rather than
real UID.
.TP
\(bu
The
.CR -C
and
.CR -H
options, while they are not part of the XPG4 standard,
are enabled.
.RE
.PP
.CR LC_TIME
determines the format and contents of date and time strings.
If it is not specified or is null, it defaults to the value of
.CR LANG .
.PP
If
.CR LANG
is not specified or is null, it defaults to
.CR C
(see
.IR lang (5)).
.PP
If any internationalization variable contains an invalid setting,
all internationalization variables default to
.CR C
(see
.IR environ (5)).
.SS International Code Set Support
Single-byte character code sets are supported.
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate a full listing of all processes currently running on your machine:
.IP
.C "ps \-ef"
.PP
To see if a certain process exists on the machine, such as the
.CR cron
clock daemon, check the far right column for the command name,
.CR cron ,
or try
.IP
.C "ps \-f \-C cron"
.SH WARNINGS
Things can change while
.CR ps
is running; the picture it gives is only a snapshot in time.
Some data printed for defunct processes is irrelevant.
.PP
If two special files for terminals are located at the same select code,
that terminal may be reported with either name.
The user can select processes with that terminal using either name.
.PP
Users of
.C ps
must not rely on the exact field widths and spacing of its output,
as these will vary depending on the system, the release of HP-UX, and
the data to be displayed.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.SS HP Process Resource Manager
The
.CR \-P
and
.CR \-R
options require the optional
HP Process Resource Manager (PRM) software
to be installed and configured.
See
.IR prmconfig (1)
for a description of how to configure HP PRM, and
.IR prmconf (4)
for the definition of "process resource group."
.PP
If HP PRM is not installed and configured and
.CR \-P
or
.CR \-R
is specified, a warning message is displayed and (for
.CR \-P )
hyphens (-) are displayed in the
.CR prmid
and
.CR prmgrp
columns.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 35
.CR /dev
Directory of terminal device files
.TP
.CR /etc/passwd
User ID information
.TP
.CR /var/adm/ps_data
Internal data structure
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
kill(1),
nice(1),
acctcom(1M),
exec(2),
exit(2),
fork(2),
sysconf(2),
unistd(5).
.PP
HP Process Resource Manager:
prmconfig(1),
prmconf(4)
in
.CT "HP Process Resource Manager User's Guide" .
.SH STANDARDS COMPLIANCE
.CR ps ": SVID2, XPG2, XPG3, XPG4"
.\"
.\" index@\f4ps\f1 \- report process status@@@\f3ps(1)\f1
.\" index@\f1report process status@@@\f3ps(1)\f1
.\" index@\f1process status, report@@@\f3ps(1)\f1
.\" index@\f1status, report process@@@\f3ps(1)\f1
.\" index@\f1list current processes@@@\f3ps(1)\f1
.\" index@\f1current processes, list@@@\f3ps(1)\f1
.\" index@\f1PRM@@@\f2see \f1Process Resource Manager
.\" index@\f1Process Resource Manager@@@\f3ps(1)\f1
.\"
.\" toc@\f3ps(1)\f1:\0\0\f4ps\f1@@@report process status
